1. Microsoft Visual Studio

Microsoft Visual Studio is an integrated development environment (IDE) from Microsoft. 
It is used to develop computer programs for Microsoft Windows, as well as web sites, web applications and web services. 
Visual Studio uses Microsoft software development platforms such as Windows API, Windows Forms, 
Windows Presentation Foundation, Windows Store and Microsoft Silverlight. It can produce both native code and managed code.

2. Mono

MonoDevelop is an open source integrated development environment for Linux, OS X, and Windows. 
Its primary focus is development of projects that use Mono and .NET frameworks.
MonoDevelop integrates features similar to those of NetBeans and Microsoft Visual Studio, such as automatic code completion, source control, 
a graphical user interface (GUI) and Web designer.
It supports Boo, C, C++, C#, CIL, D, F#, Java, Oxygene, Python, Vala, and Visual Basic.NET.

3. Eclipse

Eclipse IDE contains a base workspace and an extensible plug-in system for customizing the environment. 
Written mostly in Java, Eclipse can be used to develop applications. 
By means of various plug-ins, Eclipse may also be used to develop applications in other programming languages: 
Ada, ABAP, C, C++, COBOL, Fortran, Haskell, JavaScript, Lasso, Natural, Perl, PHP, Prolog, Python, R, 
Ruby (including Ruby on Rails framework), Scala, Clojure, Groovy, Scheme, and Erlang. 
Development environments include the Eclipse Java development tools (JDT) for Java and Scala, Eclipse CDT for C/C++ and Eclipse PDT for PHP, etc.

4. NetBeans

NetBeans is an IDE for developing primarily with Java, but also with other languages, 
in particular PHP, C/C++, and HTML5. It is also an application platform framework for Java desktop applications and others.
The NetBeans IDE is written in Java and can run on Windows, OS X, Linux, Solaris and other platforms supporting a compatible JVM.

5. Code::Blocks

Code::Blocks is a free C, C++ and Fortran IDE built to meet the most demanding needs of its users. 
It is designed to be very extensible and fully configurable, supporting different platforms.
Built around a plugin framework, Code::Blocks can be extended with plugins. 
Any kind of functionality can be added by installing/coding a plugin.